People enjoy buffet at a shopping mall in north China's Tianjin, Dec. 31, 2022, the first day of the New Year holiday. (Xinhua/Zhao Zishuo) Over the past five years, Chinese people’s sense of security has increased significantly, according to a report delivered by China’s judicial authorities to the national legislature for deliberation on Tuesday. The report also highlighted the crackdown on corruption and protection for women and children.From 2018 to 2022, the Supreme People's Court concluded a total of 145,000 cases, and local people's courts at all levels concluded 144 million cases, according to a report submitted by the top court on Tuesday.Regarding social stability, 238,000 cases of serious violent crimes have been concluded in the past five years, involving some 274,000 people. The overall trend of China's criminal crime cases has continued to decline, and the people's sense of security has increased significantly.In a separate report delivered by China’s top procuratorate, it said that prosecution of homicide, arson, explosions, kidnapping, robbery and theft in 2022 was the lowest in the past two decades.Regarding cases of corruption, some 119,000 cases of job-related crimes including corruption and bribery have been concluded, involving 139,000 personnel. Among them, 92 involved former senior officials above vice-ministerial levels, including Sun Zhengcai, Zhao Zhengyong and Sun Lijun. China's judicial authorities have also stepped up protection of the rights and interests of women and children, dealing with domestic violence with stronger measures and taking a zero-tolerance stance for crimes against minors.Over the past five years, nearly 9 million marriage- and family-related cases were concluded, and 13,000 personal protection orders were issued. Since 2021, 3,152 suspects have been prosecuted on charges of trafficking women and children, up 16 percent from the previous two years, the top procuratorate said. In terms of minor protection, 290,000 suspects were prosecuted in the past five years for crimes against minors including sexual assault, maltreatment and violence.The top procuratorate also elaborated on COVID-19 epidemic prevention-related crimes. A total of 542 people have been prosecuted for obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases, and another 167 people were given education and guidance.  For future works, the Supreme Court said it will put more effort into protecting personal privacy rights. The top court has issued a judicial interpretation concerning facial recognition to better safeguard personal privacy. It will also review the issue of frozen embryos to better protect the rights of widowed wives to assisted reproduction. Chinese courts will safeguard national unity by bringing all criminals seeking to split the country to justice in accordance with the law, and efforts will be made to strictly crack down on infiltration, sabotage, subversion and separatist activities by domestic and foreign hostile forces, read the report by the Supreme Court. Chinese courts will unswervingly counter illegal sanctions and "long-arm jurisdiction" to firmly safeguard China's judicial sovereignty and people's interests.