A woman writes Chinese calligraphy during "Exploring Yummy Chongqing in London" event in London, Britain, Feb 2, 2023. Photo:XinhuaTo celebrate the 60-year establishment of higher education courses for Chinese calligraphy, a forum was held recently in Shanghai to discuss the future of this traditional subject and the challenges teachers face. Data shows that 261 colleges and universities offering calligraphy majors nationwide. However, to further cultivate all-round talents, schools need to be aware the diversity of students' future employment directions: They can be teachers, document sorters at museums, or social cultural service workers. Only through this can we make this traditional art better serve the society.The Paper

Animation and Cartoons: China 1961-1964 Uproar in Heaven This classic animated film marks an achievement for the Chinese animation industry. In this film inspired by traditional Chinese art forms, Sun Wukong embodies the rebellious spirit that has influenced generations of Chinese. Photo:mtime.comThe progress of Chinese animation can be seen in the past few years from the hit Monkey King: Hero Is Back to the sci-fi animation Three-body Problem. However, to achieve a wider audience globally, domestic animation studios need to realize one fact: The cultural resonance that reflects modern Chinese society is important. For example, the recent Deep Sea pays attention to young people's struggle with depression. Back when Chinese animation first made its way in the industry, the 1961 movie The Monkey King: Uproar in Heaven influenced generations with its fun and educational story. How to connect Chinese myths with real life needs to be considered by all Chinese animators.Gmw.cn

The children's wear exhibit at the Shanxi Archaeology Museum in Taiyuan, North China's Shanxi Province Photos: Courtesy of the Shanxi Archaeology MuseumData released at a recent museum forum held in the Chaoyang district, Beijing, shows that there are 71 museums in the district alone. Data also shows that more younger visitors are stepping into museums to "enjoy their leisure time," indicating that museums have become a major part of people's cultural lives. Museum operators need to determine the director of their museum at the early stage of establishment. They need to know the needs of people of different ages so all generations can find what they are interested in while exploring museums.Huanqiu.com