China EU Photo:VCGThe China-Europe relationship is not targeted at any third party nor is it subjugated to or controlled by any third party, Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang told a press conference on Tuesday during the ongoing two sessions. China and Europe are two great civilizations, two big markets and two major forces. Our interactions are an independent choice made by the two sides entirely based on our respective strategic interests, Qin said. No matter how the situation may evolve, China always views the EU as a comprehensive strategic partner and supports European integration, Qin said. "We hope that Europe, with the painful Ukraine crisis in mind, will truly realize strategic autonomy and long-term peace and stability," he said. We will work with Europe to uphold multilateralism and stick to mutual respect and win-win cooperation, Qin said. "We wish to work with Europe to overcome disruptions and challenges, continue deepening the China-EU comprehensive strategic partnership, and contribute more stability, certainty and positive energy to a world of change and disorder," he said. At the invitation of the governments of France, Italy, Hungary and Russia, Wang Yi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, visited the countries from February 14 to 22.Ambassador Fu Cong, head of the Chinese Mission to the EU, told the Global Times in a recent exclusive interview that he is optimistic about the recovery of China-EU relations. Although there are still some problems facing the relationship and China does not fully agree with some of the EU's position on the Ukraine issue, but it does not want the issue to affect the development of China-EU relations.The China-Europe relationship is not targeted at any third party, nor is it subjugated to or controlled by any third party, Qin told the press conference. Also, Qin responded to a question about China's diplomacy, which is often described by the Western media as "Wolf Worrier diplomacy." The truth is that the "Wolf Worrier diplomacy" is a narrative trap, and those who created the term and set the trap either know little about China and Chinese diplomacy or have a hidden agenda to disregard the facts, Qin said. Confucius said over 2,000 years ago that one should repay kindness with kindness and resentment with justice. If resentment is repaid with kindness, then with what should kindness be paid, Qin noted. "In Chinese diplomacy, there is no shortage of kindness and goodwill, but if faced with wolves, Chinese diplomats have no choice but to confront them head on and protect our motherland," he said. Global Times