Aerial photo taken on Sept. 17, 2020 shows the Houhai area in Nanshan District of Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province. (Photo: Xinhua) Achieving modernization for a country with a population of more than 1.4 billion will be an unprecedented feat in human history, and Chinese modernization offers solutions to many challenges facing human development, and dispels the myth that modernization is westernization, according to Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang during a press conference Tuesday on the sidelines of the first session of the 14th National People's Congress.Qin answered questions of journalists from home and abroad on China's foreign policy and foreign relations.At the press conference, Qin said that Chinese modernization has become a popular term around the world, and achieving modernization for a country of more than 1.4 billion people will be an unprecedented feat in human history.Chinese modernization offers solutions to many challenges facing human development. It busts the myth that modernization is westernization. It creates a new form of human advancement. It provides an important source of inspiration for the world, especially developing countries, Qin said."As I see it, Chinese modernization has at least five features," Qin stated.First, independence. The reason why the Chinese path to modernization works is exactly because it is developed in China and rooted in Chinese culture and fits well with China's national conditions. China's success in development also proves that every country has the right and ability to choose its own path and hold its future firmly in its own hands.Second, putting people first. Chinese modernization is of common prosperity for all the people. It is about achieving both material abundance and cultural ethical enrichment for the Chinese people. Modernization should not serve the interests of only a few countries or individuals. It should not make the rich richer and poor poorer, nor should it lead to cultural impoverishment, moral degradation or disorder. People around the world should all enjoy the rights to seek development as equals and pursue happiness, Qin stressed.Third, peaceful development. Chinese modernization is not pursued through war, colonization or exploitation. It is dedicated to peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit and is committed to harmony between humanity and nature. It is a new path different from Western modernization.Fourth, openness and inclusiveness. Mankind's path to modernization should not be a one-flower show, but a hundred flowers in bloom. It is important to respect the right of every country to pursue a modernization path, tailored to its national reality and encourage exchange and mutual learning, according to Qin.Fifth, working hard in unity. The success of China's development proves that acting in disunity like heap of loose sand will get us nowhere and only by striving in unity can we prove strength. We will persevere in carrying out the set blueprint until it becomes reality. Partisan rifts, empty talk and frequent policy flip flops as seen in certain countries will only make even the best blueprint be the illusion and castle in the air.The process of Chinese modernization is a boost to the force for peace, justice and progress in the world. We hope and believe that as more and more countries begin their own journey of modernization, the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind will become a reality.The world is far from tranquil, and is becoming entangled in intertwined turmoil in transformation, the clash between unity and division and the coexistence of opportunities and challenges. The new journey of China's diplomacy will be an expedition built on glory and dreams. It will also be a long voyage through stormy seas, the harder the mission, the more glorious the accomplishment, the Chinese foreign minister stated.We will meet challenges head on boldly, take on responsibilities, foster and enable external environment for building a modern socialist country in all respects and write a new chapter in China's distinctive major country diplomacy in the new era, Qin said.