The Past Ballad, a musical that depicts the life of renowned Chinese folk collector and composer Wang Luobin (1913-1996) is set to be performed on April 15 and 16, 2023 at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center. Photo: Courtesy of Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts CenterA new musical commemorating Wang Luobin (1913-1996), a renowned Chinese folk collector and composer known as the "folk song king of the Northwest," will be publicly premiered in Beijing in April.The Past Ballad depicts Wang's life, and performances will start in spring 2023.

The Past Ballad, a musical that depicts the life of reknown Chinese folk collector and composer Wang Luobin (1913-1996) and his deeds in Xinjiang,is performed on April 15 and 16, 2023 at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center. Photo: Courtesy of Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts CenterA household name in China, Wang was also a Beijing Normal University alumnus. Wang enrolled in Beijing Normal University in 1931 to study music with Russian and German teachers. He originally dreamed of pursuing music in Europe, but fell in love with Chinese folk music after traveling to China's northwest to study folk songs in 1938.

The Past Ballad, a musical that depicts the life of reknown Chinese folk collector and composer Wang Luobin (1913-1996) and his deeds in Xinjiang,is performed on April 15 and 16, 2023 at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center. Photo: Courtesy of Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts CenterWang's deep ties with Xinjiang can be seen from his composition of northwestern folk song The Girl from DaBan City, his first Xinjiang-inspired song. He was in Lanzhou at the time when he heard the tune from a Uygur driver. After the lyrics were translated from Uygur into Chinese, a popular Xinjiang folk song was born.Ten years prior to moving to Xinjiang in 1949, Wang "dug out" a number of songs from the area in a similar manner, using melodies heard from chauffeurs and street performers in the nearby provinces of Qinghai and Gansu.

The Past Ballad, a musical that depicts the life of renowned Chinese folk collector and composer Wang Luobin (1913-1996) is set to be performed on April 15 and 16, 2023 at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center. Photo: Courtesy of Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts CenterThe plot of the musical The Past Ballad is based on the life of Wang, a man who fought for his nation by dedicating himself to the western border and the music arts. The musical is a combination of music, dance, musical instruments, and other art forms, assimilating the essence of the national culture.

The Past Ballad, a musical that depicts the life of reknown Chinese folk collector and composer Wang Luobin (1913-1996) and his deeds in Xinjiang,is performed on April 15 and 16, 2023 at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center. Photo: Courtesy of Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts CenterThe musical has been well accepted by teachers and students after several rounds of school presentations and it will be performed at Beijing Normal University throughout March, along with two days of performances at Beijing Tianqiao Performing Arts Center on April 15 and 16.The main production team consists of teachers and students from Beijing Normal University. The team also brought in famous playwright Qian Xiaotian, stage art designer for the National Center for the Performing Arts Zhao Xiaoyu, and Zhu Jie, a well-known composer and director of the music department of Beijing Normal University.Global Times