Pansy Ho Chiu-king, a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) from HKSAR. Photo: CCTVHong Kong should act as a “super contact” between the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and the world, and take advantage of its development opportunity to empower the nation’s construction, according to Pansy Ho Chiu-king, a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) in comments made on Tuesday. “Some people say I am from Macao, some people say I am from Hong Kong, I will say I am from the Greater Bay Area,” Ho said during an interview at the ongoing Two Sessions. According to Ho, there are nine cities and two Special Administrative Regions (SARs) in the Greater Bay Area where people drink water from the same river, share the same culture and history of thousands of years, eat the same food, and have the same character of bearing hardships and standing for hard work. The development plan of the Greater Bay Area adopted in 2019 has provided a clear guidance on the advantageous development of the 11 cities, especially in terms of collaboration, Ho said, adding that the area should make good use of government’s supporting policies to complement each other’s advantages. As a matter of fact, the total population of the Greater Bay Area had surpassed 86 million as of 2020 and its economic aggregate climbed to 12.6 trillion yuan in 2021, which reflects the huge market, rich human resources and unlimited development potential, Ho said. According to Ho, Hong Kong has entered a new stage of governance and prosperity and the Greater Bay Area will become a great stage for Hong Kong’s development. As a highly open and internationalized city in the Greater Bay Area, Hong Kong is an international financial, shipping, trade center and aviation hub with its high-quality professional services reputed in the world. Relying on the unique domestic advantages, Hong Kong should act as a “super contact” between the Greater Bay Area and the world, and take advantage of its development opportunity to empower the construction of the country, Ho said. Ho recalled her first job related to the cooperation between Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao 25 years ago when Hong Kong had only recently returned to the motherland and the mainland was carrying out its historic reform and opening-up policy while the Pearl River Delta was showing its great potential for development. “I thought Hong Kong could not keep to itself and sought to expand cross-border shipping business in 1999, introducing cooperation with state-owned companies, coordinating and expanding the development of maritime transport networks and carrying forward Hong Kong’s unique strengths,” Ho said, noting that nowadays the completion of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge has furthered connected the three cities. “I feel extremely proud and honored to have acted as a witness, promoter and participant in this process,” Ho said. According to Ho, as long as Hong Kong, Macao and the nine cities in the Greater Bay Area have a consistent goal, concerted effort and mutual consensus, they can make the whole bigger and stronger by making good use of the advantages conferred by the country. Ho said she believes that the Greater Bay Area can play a very good example for the achievement of Chinese-style modernization and the realization of the Chinese Dream with hands joined together, as well as making a positive contribution to building a community with a shared future for mankind. Global Times