Chinese national flag and the flag of the HKSAR are flown across streets in Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong, in June 2022 to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the city’s return to the motherland. Photo: ICThe National Security Law has played a pivotal role in enabling the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) to move from chaos to stability and prosperity without compromising the protection of human rights and the HKSAR is integrating with national development and roaring back to the forefront of the global stage, Gary Wong Chi-him, a representative from the HKSAR said at the 52nd session of the Human Rights Council on Wednesday. Wong, also a board member at the UN Association of China, said at the session that three years since the implementation of the National Security Law, Hong Kong has restored stability and effective governance. The signing of 13 memoranda of understanding during Hong Kong’s recent mission to the Middle East is an excellent showcase of Hong Kong’s return to the global stage, ushering in a new chapter. In 2021, according to the World Bank, Hong Kong’s rule of law percentile ranking was above 90 percent.  “Facts speak louder than words. Some scaremongers vilifying the National Security Law are not doing better than Hong Kong in terms of their rule of law. I am here to urge them to stop interfering in China’s internal affairs and spend more time on improving their own human rights situation,” said Wong. The representative from the HKSAR also noted that with Hong Kong’s unique strengths and the staunch support of the Chinese Central Government, global talent and companies are moving to Hong Kong. Sports and cultural events are making a comeback. Tourism is reviving. New business opportunities are emerging. Hong Kong is integrating with national development and roaring back to the forefront of the global stage, said Wong, noting that with confidence, dynamism, vitality and “Lion Rock spirit,” Hong Kong is ready to connect the East and West and make the world a better place.