Photo: CFPAt a press conference Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang responded to the Taiwan question with the Chinese Constitution in hand, saying that the island of Taiwan is a part of China's sacred territory. How to resolve the Taiwan question is a matter of China's own internal affairs, and no foreign country has the right to interfere.The Taiwan question is the core of China's core interests, the foundation of the political foundation of China-US relations, and the first uncrossable red line in China-US relations, Qin stressed. The US bears undeniable responsibility for provoking the Taiwan question.Recently, some senior US officials said that the Taiwan question is not an issue of China's internal affair. Qin responded that China firmly opposed to that and remained highly vigilant.Qin also said that the reason China talks to the US about the Taiwan question is to urge the US not to interfere in China's internal affairs. If the Taiwan question is not handled well, China-US relations will be thrown off course. If the US really wants peace across the Taiwan Straits, it should stop containing China with the Taiwan question, return to the roots of the one-China principle, honor its political commitment to China, and unequivocally oppose and stop "Taiwan independence.""For both sides of the Straits, we all have a shared family, and the name is China," Qin said. As blood compatriots, China will continue to strive for peaceful reunification with utmost sincerity and utmost efforts. "The Anti-Secession Law makes it clear that if there is a violation of the law, we must act in accordance with the Constitution," Qin noted.The Chinese people are entitled to ask: Why does the US talk so much about respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity on the Ukraine issue, but not respect China's sovereignty and territorial integrity on the Taiwan question? Why does the US ask China not to supply arms to Russia, while it keeps selling arms to Taiwan in violation of the China-US joint communique in 1982? Why does the US only offer lip service in regard to maintaining regional peace and stability while secretly making plans to "destroy Taiwan?"No one should underestimate the strong resolution, firm will and strong ability of the Chinese government and people to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity, Qin said.