Job hunters look at posts on a board during a local career fair in Pingliang, Northwest China’s Gansu Province on June 23. Photo: VCG In the spring recruitment season of 2023, more and more young people began to avoid megacities and return to their hometowns to start businesses. Their response of “I am doing fine at home” has gradually become a trend among young job seekers in China today. In the hot TV drama Go Where the Wind Blows shown in 2022, a college graduate gave up his promising career in Beijing and chose to return to his hometown in Dali, Southwest China’s Yunnan Province. The show attracted audiences not only for the beautiful scenery, but also for the hero’s courage and devotion to leading villagers to live a better life. Indeed, compared with big cities that suffer from overcrowded transport, restricted housing space and high cost of living, smaller cities or rural areas have many advantages. First, there are more opportunities for employment in smaller cities. According to data on Zhaopin.com, in the first week after the Spring Festival, only one megacity was listed among the TOP10 cities in terms of year-on-year growth in job openings, and the rest of them were all medium-sized cities. Second, thanks to emerging industries, smaller cities are in a good position to attract talented people. Third, with better investment conditions, smaller cities now have improved industrial and supply chains, which can keep employment more stable. In regard to daily life, medium-sized cities, towns and rural areas have lower living costs, more housing space and better air quality. Improved infrastructure, especially high-speed railways, inter-city transportation and subways, has ended the isolation of towns and the countryside from big cities. There are also better public services such as education, medical care and entertainment that can cater to the needs of the local people. Therefore, people living in smaller cities have a higher sense of happiness. In 2021, the net inflow of talent in smaller cities was higher than in their provincial capitals. At the just-concluded Two Sessions, Lu Quan, a grassroots-level deputy of the National People’s Congress from Ninglang Yi autonomous county in Lijiang, Yunnan Province told how he had returned to his hometown and led 17 college graduates to develop a 160-acre plantation for a new species of apples grown at the altitude of 2,700 meters, using digital technology. Now almost every household in his village has its own business online. Jili Ziri, another NPC deputy, was the first college graduate from his village in Southwest China’s Sichuan Province. He used to have a stable job in the city, but once he returned home, he heard some fellow villagers say “You must lead us to live a better life.” So he forged a career path back in his hometown and after three years, roads on the cliff side were built up thanks to his efforts, and he was acclaimed by his villagers as the “road-building Party secretary.”    Cao Dianguo, a farmer in Xiaoyao village of Zaozhuang, East China’s Shandong Province acquired his title of “associate agrarian” thanks to the professional title evaluation system. It has boosted the confidence and morale of “new farmers” who have technical, marketing and business operation expertise.   All of these “new farmers” can interpret national policies and explain them to their fellow villagers, and then can take more acceptable measures to lead them to be better off. Moreover, they can take advantage of the technological skills and new ideas acquired from their education and work experience in big cities as well as their acute marketing sense to build a more beautiful country. With the upgraded infrastructure and working environment, more and more young talented people will surely be drawn to come back and join in the force of “new farmers,” which is crucial to achieving the cause of rural revitalization. However, there are still some disadvantages to working in smaller cities and rural areas, where personal connections are often preferred to rules. But as digital technology gets more accessible, there will be more information and opportunities, which will provide a more equitable and higher-quality working environment. The Government Work Report issued at the Two Sessions shows that China will continue to build the rural areas to enrich farmers. Encouraging young people to work in their hometown can not only help solve their problem of employment, but also promote the cause of rural revitalization, so it is “a stone that kills two birds.” It will also contribute to the common prosperity of all people and the Chinese path to modernization.