Photo: VCGThe 18th China (Shenzhen) International Cultural Industries Fair (ICIF) in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, came to an end on Monday. This cultural feast attracted the wild participation of various provinces and regions to display traditional Chinese handicrafts, cultural and creative products, ecological tourism products and routes, and key cultural and tourism projects. The main venue was the 120,000-square-meter Shenzhen World Exhibition and Convention Center. In the exhibition hall, two photo frames made of pearl boards contained miniature ornaments full of Hong Kong elements such as the bing sutt (traditional cold drink houses), and a sign from Lion Rock.For the first time, an independent design group made of designers like Veron Sung participated at the Hong Kong Pavilion in the exhibition. Sung told the Global Times that she hopes to explore more possibilities of a charming Hong Kong through the showcasing  of real photos featuring the sceneries and local life. Next to the Hong Kong Pavilion is the Macao Creative Pavilion, where a number of Macao cultural landmarks such as the A-Ma Temple, the Ruins of St. Paul's and the Guia Fortress have been turned into miniature Lego models. "We encourage young designers in Macao to create more innovative cultural and creative products," Eva Rong, an employee at the pavilion, told the Global Times on Monday.The Taiwan Pavilion also brought the island's special product - a folk tea from the Hakka people. In the exhibit Welcome to be a Guest, Xu Zhiliang, a craftsman from the island's Miaoli county, presents the traditional Hakka way of drinking tea, sparking nostalgia in Hakka people in the Chinese mainland.The ICIF also set up an international pavilion to display domestic and foreign cultural products online, showcasing the achievements of Chinese and foreign cultural integration and innovative development. As of Wednesday, 10,931 overseas purchasers from 108 countries and regions, including France, Germany and Pakistan, had registered to view the exhibitions and make purchases online.Every year, the fair showcases more than 100,000 cultural and creative exhibits from China and abroad, with some 4,000 cultural investments and financing projects displayed, the Xinhua News Agency reported."We are very pleased that we found some cooperation intentions in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area thanks to this cultural feast," said Rong.