Promotional material for Full River Red Photo: Courtesy of MaoyanThe movie Full River Red became the center of attention during the Spring Festival holidays, not only because it was the top dog at the box office, but also because it made the ancient Chinese poem Man Jiang Hong, composed by patriotic general Yue Fei, popular again. In a social media post, a Chinese woman noted that because her son was able to successfully recite the entire Man Jiang Hong poem at the Yue Fei Temple, a famous tourist attraction in Central China's Henan Province, they were able to get in for free. She added that she felt the temple's decision to do so is very significant. This kind of event conveys values that can guide children to love ancient Chinese poems, history, and culture. Workers' DailyDue to the influence of the popular TV series Meet Yourself, the number of tourists traveling to Dali, Southwest China's Yunnan Province, has increased rapidly. Since the show's debut in early January, the city has become one of the most popular tourist destinations of 2023 so far.From the fans' enthusiasm for the show, we can see that the film and TV industry and the tourism industry are a great match for each other. Of course, how well they interact depends on the quality of the movies or dramas. The good stories, compelling acting, delectable cuisine and beautiful scenery seen in the shows are all indispensable elements to making "a place become popular because of a show."People's DailyGatling gun-shaped fireworks saw a huge increase in sales in China during the Spring Festival holidays. The reason why they have become such a hot commodity comes down to the fascinating light display after being ignited, the help of social media and the perfect timing that matched them with the Spring Festival. The popularity of these "Gatling guns" not only demonstrate a fundamental change in traditional industries, but also reflect a transition in the mindset from "selling products to selling creativity." The emergence of new consumer demographics means that new markets have been opened. The fireworks industry needs to continue to move toward the high-end of the value chain.The Paper