People visit Huangsi Temple Fair during the Spring Festival holiday in Shenyang, capital of northeast China's Liaoning Province, Jan. 23, 2023. Various activities were held here at the 6-day fair, starting from Jan. 22, to celebrate the Spring Festival. (Xinhua/Yang Qing)Many scenic spots across the country have embraced the tourism peak during the Chinese Spring Festival holidays, with some tourist attractions seeing tickets sold out, and the red tourism which refers to visiting historical sites with a modern revolutionary legacy, also saw a strong rebound.During the holidays, the long lines at restaurants and large crowds gathering in the famous scenic spots were seen in many regions across the country. Shaoshan, Central China’s Hunan Province, the birthplace of the late Chinese leader Mao Zedong, received more than 210,000 visits in the first five days of the Spring Festival, according to local media reports. The proportion of villagers in Shaoshan participating in tourism has reached 70 percent, according to the Shaoshan local authorities. About 200 homestay inns, catering outlets and travel agencies are operating, and over 30 cultural, tourism and agricultural products have been developed including souvenirs and food.It is not surprising that the 2023 Spring Festival tourist market heated up quickly. As early as before the Spring Festival, the data of several online travel platforms have indicated that people’s travel demand and enthusiasm increased significantly, which have effectively increased consumption, according to the Hunan authorities.The 925 tourist attractions in Central China’s Hunan Province received more than 4 million visits, up 102.51 percent year on year, with the business revenue reaching more than 407 million yuan ($60 million) in the first four days of the Spring Festival, according to the Hunan local government.At the Sanxingdui Museum in Guanghan, Southwest China’s Sichuan Province, there are still many visitors swarming into the museum on Friday and many made good wishes there. The museum had released notices several times during the holidays reminding visitors that tickets were sold out and that tickets should be reserved in advance.During the Spring Festival holidays, the museum has been in a continuous peak of visits, which has exceeded the highest number of visitors in the same period in the past years. The museum has launched emergency plans for reservation and services to ensure the safety of tourists.In Shanghai, the city received more than 10 million visits in the seven-day holiday. The memorial of the first National Congress of the Communist Party of China and other red tourism attractions held special activities online and offline such as red tourism culture introduction to attract more young visitors.In Jiaxing, East China’s Zhejiang Province, Nanhu Lake received about 5,000 visits one day during the holidays, while Yan’an Revolutionary Memorial Hall in Northwest China’s Shaanxi Province had an average daily visits of more than 9,000 as of Thursday, according to media reports.