File photo:CGTNWhile China is downgrading COVID management from Class A to Class B and gradually reopening its borders from January 8, the Global Times has learned from the Chinese Embassy in India that it will further optimize the visa arrangement for foreigners coming to China from Sunday, and the number of Indian students applying for visas to China will continue to grow in 2023, and the number of people entering China with visas for business, visits, and family visits is also expected to increase significantly.The National Immigration Administration of China recently issued a notice on optimizing immigration administration policies and measures starting from January 8, including the resumption of accepting and approval of Chinese citizens' applications for ordinary passports for the purposes of tourism and visiting friends abroad.The administration will also resume the processing of endorsements for Chinese mainland residents visiting the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for tourism and business purposes, as well as the issuance of exit-and-entry permits of China and exit-and-entry permits for border control areas. To further facilitate personnel exchanges between China and India, the embassy resumed services for 10 types of ordinary visa in late August 2022, including long-term study, business, work, family visits, personal visits, talent introduction, among others, the embassy said. the embassy will further optimize visa arrangements and provide greater convenience for Indians coming to China in meeting the demand of people's exchanges and cooperation between China and India across various fields. "On the current basis, the embassy will further resume and increase the acceptance of visa applications for residence, transit, short-term study and journalists while further relaxing the visa deadlines for business, family visits and private affairs," it said. The embassy further clarified the categories of people who can enter China without a visa application including foreigners who are applicable to various visa exemption agreements and hold valid permanent residence certificates in China, various valid residence permits, valid APEC business cards (excluding virtual cards) and 24-hour transit visa-free personnel. Starting from January 9, the Chinese Visa Service Center (New Delhi) will accept visa applications from Monday to Friday to provide convenience for Indians going to China. However, applications for visas to China for travel, medical treatment and other reasons remain suspended.India media reported that there have been about 23,000 Indian students studying in China with most enrolled in medical colleges who could not return to China due to the epidemic. They were unable to travel to China for training and continuous schooling or graduation as well as employment were also affected. From August 2022, the embassy has stepped up efforts to resumption of work, production and schooling in China, opening a green channel for visa applications for international students. Under these joint efforts, so far, there are about 6,200 Indian students have obtained visas to China and with the latest visa policy adjustment, the number of Indian students applying for visas to China will continue to grow in 2023. The embassy said the majority of Indians applying for visas to China are those who plan to come for study, business or work purposes. With the relaxation of the entry visa policy, more groups are expected to arrive in 2023, for example, those for business and family visits, which will increase significantly. Currently, China and India are still negotiating details for the resumption of direct flights, which will effectively shorten travel time and reduce the risk of infection, the embassy said. "The resumption of direct flights will help further facilitate personnel exchanges and cooperation between China and India in various sectors, which is in line with the common interests of the both sides," the embassy said.