Illustration: Hang Dachuan/Global Times"Your eyes are wide open as bells, and your ears are straight as antenna..." This song from the famous Chinese cartoon Black Cat Detective, also known as Mr Black, sounds very familiar to many people.On Tuesday, the 2023 special edition of the animation on food security named Mr Black was launched to mark the third Chinese People's Police Day. The original 5-episode cartoon TV series was produced in 1984 by Shanghai Animation Film Studio. It tells the stories of a black cat sheriff who kills rats, cracks the mantis case, and safeguards forests, ensuring all animals to live a peaceful life. And the 2023 edition bring back many fond memories of Chinese netizens,  especially those born in the 1980s and 1990s. The 8-minute new drama focuses on Mr Black's new mission to protect the soybean field from the rats with some advanced technologies such as the quantum detector to detect the enemy's stealth helicopter. The animation can be a good way to mark the third Chinese People's Police Day, which was set on January 10 since 2021 by China's State Council to inspire police officers to better serve the country.  Indeed, the Chinese policemen have devoted so much to the people, providing them with a good sense of security. China is one of the safest countries with the lowest rate of crimes and the least gun criminal cases in the world. The Chinese police have always fought on the forefront of anti-epidemic, tracking down crimes, disaster relief such as earthquakes, floods and mudslides, cracking down on drugs and money fraud, rescuing people from fire and traffic accidents. In 2021, the criminal offenses, drug crimes, deaths of big traffic accidents decreased by 64.4 percent, 56.8 percent and 59.3 percent respectively compared with that of 2012. These achievements should be attributed to the dedication of the Chinese police. For example, on June 26, 1982, the first Chinese anti-drug squad was established in Southwest China's Yunnan Province. Over the past five years, about 451,000 drug crimes have been handled, 588,000 criminals seized and 305 tons of drugs were confiscated. And the police have sacrificed a lot for completing these tasks. In the past 40 years, 60 police officers of anti-drug frontier in Southwest China's Yunnan Province have died and 300 injured in fulfilling their missions. Many heroes have emerged this endeavor.Zhou Maijun, head of the crime control squad in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture of Southwest China's Sichuan Province spent nine years, more than 3,000 days on the mission of drug control, suffering many life-threatening moments. His motto is "as long as I can guarantee the safety of this piece of land, I deserve my police outfit."The traffic police brigade in Amdo County, Southwest China's Xizang (Tibet) Autonomous Region keep on guard at the altitude of 4,800 meters every day to safeguard the orderly, safe and smooth of the "main artery" of region's land route. The Chinese police's heroic spirit and fearless devotion have inspired the people, especially the young people, many of whom wished to "work as policemen when they grow up." On this very day, the release of the special edition of Mr Black is a special and meaningful gift to salute them.