A traditional rowing race in worship of Canshen, the local patron god of silkworm raisers, is seen during a temple fair at Qinghe Village, Zhouquan Township, Tongxiang City of east China's Zhejiang Province, April 4, 2021.(Photo: Xinhua) In order to seek for the blessings of the new year, Chinese ancestors were said to hold sacrificial activities in temples or palaces by providing animal offerings. They would perform songs and dances near the sacrificial sites on one specific day. Though the sacrificial activities have disappeared, the tradition to hold other activities in temples have passed down across the country, later known as temple fairs to us all.As the temple fairs were closed during the last three years' COIVD-19 pandemic, many of them are about to reopen at the beginning of 2023. Although the temple fairs no longer have strict restrictions on sacrificial occasions, this custom has evolved into the most concentrated display of folk customs in various places during the Spring Festival. Let's take a look at the unique activities of temple fairs across the country.In Beijing, one of the things that must be done during the Spring Festival here is visiting the temple fairs. The capital this year introduced 10 temple fairs with different themes. For example the Daguanyuan Honglou temple fair is the only special one with the theme of Dream of the Red Chamber. The unique traditional program "Concubine Yuan Visiting Relatives," a grand performance scene reproducing the concubine Jia Yuanchun's returning home to visit relatives from the imperial palace in the novel, will be presented as part of the fair activities. In addition to performances, folk art, puppet shows, acrobatics, and performances from other provinces including stunt performances and drum and lion dance, will also be presented here.At the foot of the Great Wall, Gubei Water Town will also hold the activities featuring a variety of old Beijing elements including delicacies, parade performances, and intangible cultural heritage handicrafts.Whereas in southern part of China, the temple fairs are integrated with local customs and burst into a new model.In Guangzhou, South China's Guangdong Province, the local government helped to organize the temple fair including lanterns exhibitions and intangible cultural heritage activities. But different from the last 12 fairs, this year's fair has been built around the theme of metaverse and visitors are able to attend a virtual fair without being present. Meanwhile the well-known Yuexiu West Lake Flower Market, the most representative traditional flower market in Guangzhou, will also be held at the same time to add a touch to the temple fair. In East China's Jiangsu, a grand temple fair will be held inside the Baohuashan National Forest Park during the Spring Festival. Visitors will be able to have a taste of Jiangsu local delicacies, experience the paper-cut and watch the calligraphy works, and enjoy the traditional hanfu parade as well.Global Times