The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTUnder the theme, The People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall, a show that celebrates the victory of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in the Huaihai Campaign, has launched on Tuesday at the Museum of the War of People's Resistance Against Japanese Aggression in Beijing.

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTIncluding items such as the PLA army's bugle, telegram documents, and also precious relics from martyrs of the Huaihai Campaign, the exhibition display a total of 257 historical pieces to commemorate the 74th anniversary of PLA troops' victory in the battle in 2023. 

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTLi, a commentator working at the exhibition,  told the Global Times that items such as worn-out shoes that were once have been used by workers show how ordinary Chinese people were united with the PLA to fight in the battle.  

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTStarting in 1948, the Huaihai Campaign is a major historical event which took place during the Chinese Civil War. With only 600,000 troops at that time, PLA troops have successfully resisted 800,000 Kuomingtang troops, winning a decisive victory.

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTLuo Cunkang, Director of the Museum of the War of People's Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, told the Global Times that the The People's Victory show is not only for people to remember the great spirits PLA in the Huaihai Campaign, it also dedicates to tell "stories about the century-old Party history."

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GTAt the exhibition hall, creative designs such as the three-dimensional demonstration boards and QR codes attached to each item are installed to provide audiences with interactive experiences to the relics. 

The venue of People's Victory: Exhibition of Cultural Relics in Huaihai Campaign Memorial Hall Photos: Li Hao/GT"My favorite item is the flip boards, it helps me to learn the history of the battle," Xue Le, a visitor at the exhibition, told the Global Times. Zhang Weijie, a representative from the Museum's publicity department, told the Global Times that in July 2023, another special exhibition about the Communist Party of China's development histories, is also planned to debut at the museum.  The event is collaboratively organized by two Chinese cities of Beijing and Xuzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province. It is scheduled to end on February 20.