An employer (L) communicates with a job seeker at a job fair in Haikou, south China's Hainan Province. File Photo: Xinhua As the 7-day Spring Festival holidays are approaching to an end, multiple manufacturing hubs in China are going all out in cross-provincial recruitment with strengthened efforts and benefits in preparation for the upcoming production peak. Taizhou in East China’s Zhejiang Province sent out 9 groups to several provinces before the Spring Festival, aiming to recruit employees from labor exporting regions, with another 16 teams expected to depart after the holiday, local news outlet Taizhou Daily reported on Friday.   The recruit demand for post-holidays is expected to surge significantly, and a total of 191 manufacturing enterprises from Taizhou have offered around 12,600 positions this time, Lu Caiqing, a local official said. The city has planned 25 recruitment lines for participated enterprises to choose from, which broke the tradition for only hiring local employees based on the firm’s location, according to the report form Taizhou Daily.   Fuzhou in East China’s Fujian Province welcomed the first batch of 238 returning workers from Southwest China’s Yunnan Province after the Spring Festival through two free charter flights, according to local news outlet FJSEN.com, adding that the 238 workers will start work for 28 key enterprises in Fujian.  Among the 238 arrived workers, 57 of them are joining Fujian Changyuan Textile Co with more than 150 to come, Li Xiaoli, the person in charge of the company’s human resources said, according to the report from FJSEN.com.  According to an official survey result targeting 5,000 core local enterprises, the returning rate of workers outside Fujian province for this Spring Festival is more than 65 percent, while job demand is expected to reach 47,000 and enterprises in Fuzhou are seeking around 90,000 employees, per the report by FJSEN.com. Meanwhile, cities across the nation are ramping up efforts to help local firms attract and retain staff with strengthened benefits, financial aid, and organized recruitment events.  For instance, Shenzhen in South China’s Guangdong Province plans to invest 270 million yuan ($398,000) through the issuance of 3 major subsidies and strengthen employment services, Shenzhen Special Zone Daily reported on Friday. A 200-yuan subsidy per person will be distributed to staff returning to original positions in enterprises with more than 500 people before February 5, with a quota up to 400,000 yuan for one company. Shenzhen will carry out 208 recruitment events from January to March, per the report from Shenzhen Special Zone Daily.  Responsible authorities in China have been working non-stop with targeted supportive measures to promote employment. A total of 12.06 million new jobs were created and around 490-billion-yuan worth of policy dividends were released in 2022, Lu Aihong, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security said at a press briefing on January 18.More stimulating policies and measures are expected to be implemented in 2023 to further guarantee employment stability, according to officials.