Trucks wait to load containers at a container terminal in Rizhao, east China's Shandong Province, March 28, 2022.(Photo: Xinhua)China's GDP expanded 3 percent year-on-year to 121 trillion yuan ($17.93 trillion) in 2022, maintaining a stable expansion as the world's second-largest economy navigated uncharted waters and surmounted headwinds - ranging from the coronavirus and geopolitical tensions to interest rate hikes and waning overseas demand - with an overwhelming fighting spirit..Despite a mild slowdown in the fourth quarter due to an uptick in infections, China still outshone most other major economies including the US last year, based on international organizations' estimates. The comparisons again highlighted China's role as the locomotive of the global economy last year, when its factories helped the world to tame inflation and stabilize fragmented supply chains.  Averaged over the past three years, GDP grew an impressive 4.57 percent -- fresh evidence demonstrating China's sound long-term economic fundamentals, which observers said were not dented by the epidemic and instead were further cemented thanks to the three-year dynamic COVID response that maximized economic gains with minimum costs.This year started on an upbeat note, with people embarking on shopping sprees for the coming Spring Festival holidays - likely to be the biggest in four years. With the returning of hustle and bustle, China is on track for a rosy GDP growth of above 5 percent in 2023, said analysts, with domestic consumption set to be the mainstay of the recovery amid a possible global recession.According to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Tuesday, industrial added-value rose 3.6 percent year-on-year in 2022, while fixed-asset investment gained 5.1 percent. Retail sales slumped 0.2 percent.China's economy grew 8.4 percent in 2021, and in 2020 - the first year of the coronavirus - GDP rose 2.3 percent, the only major economy to expand. That means annual growth of 4.57 percent over the last three years."The outcome has met market expectations, given all the unexpected internal and external short-term shocks, and that China didn't resort to stimulus spending like Western countries," Hu Qimu, deputy secretary general of the digital-real economies integration Forum 50, told the Global Times on Tuesday. Sound economic fundamentals One of the highlights showed that Chinese global competitive industries such as new-energy vehicles, advanced technology and electronic products have displayed startling growth, picking up the ongoing industrial upgrade momentum despite the influx of downward pressures."It is a good sign that once the shockwaves ebbed, the economy was able to recover quickly on the basis of healthy fundamentals. China has a unique edge in the sheer size of its market. So as long as the economic fundamentals were stabilized, we could withstand external challenges," Hu said. While Western media outlets have badmouthed China's economy, with rhetoric such as "the second-slowest growth in four decades", analysts said it's important to gauge an economy in a longer time frame, such three or five years, to eliminate short-term factors and provide a more objective picture."It is not an exaggeration to say that the situation in 2022 was more perilous than 2020. Internally, we had sporadic outbreaks in manufacturing bases including Shanghai and South China's Guangdong Province that grounded local factories and logistics, as well as a property market slump. Externally, escalating geopolitical tensions drove up bulk commodity prices, making China subject to skyrocketing imported inflation pressure," Hu said.China's growth impulses - backed by its cost-effective COVID measures - were also felt globally in the past three years. Tian Yun, an independent macro analyst, told the Global Times on Tuesday it is likely that China's contribution to global growth was about 30 percent last year, in line with a 30 percent-plus share in previous years."Last year, when Washington's aggressive interest rate hikes jolted the market, affordable 'Made in China' products were the key factor in reining in global inflation. The country also boosted exports of bulk commodities including crude oil and other energy products to Europe when the bloc was crippled by an energy crisis," Tian said. China also played a similar stabilizing role in 2021 and 2020 when global supply chains were paralyzed by the pandemic.Returning to growth potential Ahead of the Spring Festival, many Chinese travelers have been packing their bags, heading for their first international travel in four years after China downgraded COVID response in early January. The Spring Festival travel rush is also expected to see 2.09 billion passenger trips being made, almost double the 2022 level, according to the railway operator.Signs have been ripe that China is leading off the year of 2023 with a head start. "The main theme of the Chinese economy in 2023 is to walk out of the clouds and return to its brightening potential growth," Hu noted, predicting that GDP could grow 5-5.5 percent this year.  Tao Wang, chief China economist at UBS, said in a research note sent to the Global Times that GDP growth could rebound to 4.9 percent in 2023, led by consumption and helped by property stabilization. "We expect economic activities and consumption to rebound strongly from March-April onwards, helped by post-COVID reopening and release of excess savings," Wang said. Economists are bullish that the economy will see one of the fastest expansions in the world this year, thanks to a low base and a faster-than-expected recovery. According to a report by the World Bank, global growth will slow from 2.9 percent in 2022 to 1.7 percent in 2023. And US GDP is expected to rise just 0.5 percent in 2023, the weakest forecast in three decades.Nevertheless, China still faces grim multifaceted challenges this year, in particular in exports amid sliding global demands, and the country will count more on domestic consumption and investment to shore up the economy, analysts said.The nation has been going in an all-out effort to spur the economy. At an agenda-setting economic conference in December, Chinese leaders have pledged a priority on stabilizing the world's second-largest economy and a step-up on policy adjustment."Macro policies in 2023 may be more supportive than expected ... we may see a bigger expansion of the fiscal deficit ... through policy banks or other means. This would boost infrastructure investment and potentially, consumption," Wang said.