People select goods at a supermarket in Yuping Dong Autonomous County of Tongren City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Jan. 1, 2023. (Photo by Hu Panxue/Xinhua) China's top economic planner on Friday vowed all efforts to ensure stable supply and prices of essential livelihood commodities during the Spring Festival holidays, the first after the country optimized its management of COVID-19. The domestic supply of important commodities remains sufficient to meet demand during the holidays with stable prices, thanks to the implementation of various measures nationwide, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) said in a post. The measures target five aspects - the production chain and markets, active distribution of reserves, sales promotion, lowering logistics costs and strengthening market supervision, according to the NDRC. For instance, North China's Tianjin has increased 50 extra suppliers for key wholesale markets and supermarkets with plans targeting timely delivery. Shenzhen in South China's Guangdong Province, meanwhile, is utilizing 674 municipal-level supply enterprises and 307 provincial-level logistics enterprises to guarantee stable supplies. Multiple cities in China have also been distributing meat and vegetables from government reserves at lower-than-market prices. Xi'an in Northwest China's Shaanxi Province released about 13,000 tons of vegetables between January 13 and Thursday, with prices dropping by more than 10 percent from January 12. Yinchuan in Northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region plans to put out a total of 150 tons of beef and mutton between January 7 and January 27. In addition to the aforementioned measures, cities including Xiamen, Hefei, Beijing and Changsha have deployed subsidies or fee-exemption policies to lower market prices for relevant commodities, while further reducing logistics costs. Market regulators in cities including Harbin and Lianyungang vowed to strengthen supervision and ensure smooth and orderly market operations during the holidays. Moreover, officials are also making inspection visits to ensure stable market operations. Vice Minister of Commerce Sheng Qiuping recently visited multiple enterprises and markets in Beijing to inspect local supplies for the holidays, the ministry said on Friday. Besides the NDRC, relevant authorities have also been ramping up efforts to guarantee the domestic supply of important commodities amid the speedy recovery of holiday consumption.Large wholesale markets and supermarkets nationwide have stocked up on daily necessities, increasing 20 percent to 30 percent compared to normal levels and about 10 percent year-on-year, Sheng said at a press briefing on Thursday. Meanwhile, the ministry will promote and guide the normal operation of relevant enterprises and markets during the holidays, while encouraging key markets to properly extend operating hours, Sheng noted.  Global Times