Promotional material for The Wandering Earth II Photo: Courtesy of Maoyan"The creators of The Wandering Earth II are very similar to the characters featured in the movie. Their great courage and innovative spirit are the engine to push the 'planet' of science fiction into the future," Liu Cixin, author of the popular story The Wandering Earth and the Hugo Award-winning sci-fi novel The Three-Body Problem, said Sunday in a post on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo after watching the hit sci-fi epic The Wandering Earth II for the second time."We all know that China's science fiction has a long way to go. Fortunately, such a group of people are working tirelessly," he said. Sina WeiboThe strong tourism rebound during the Spring Festival holiday was both expected and unexpected. Crowds reappeared in many popular cities and tourist attractions in China. There have been jokes on the internet such as "among China's 1.4 billion people, 700 million went to Sanya [South China's Hainan Province], and the other 700 million to Xi'an [Northwest China's Shaanxi Province]." But which province was the winner during the Spring Festival?According to data released on Saturday about Spring Festival tourism in some 18 provinces, Southwest China's Sichuan Province ranked first in terms of tourist arrivals, whereas the neighboring Yunnan Province was the winner when it comes to tourism income.Yicai.comRecently, a video of a mother drawing pictures to help her son distinguish different dumpling fillings went viral on the internet. In the clip released on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo, the mother hands two bags of dumplings to her son, who is about to leave his hometown for work. The son opens the bags and sees each one has a small piece of paper with a drawing of the filling that has clearly been sketched by the mother. "What a painter!" the son remarked in a post on the video.Many internet users found this video very touching. "The core idea of the video is to tell you that your parents' love for you is everywhere, even in places that you may never notice," one commented.People.cn