Lin Xiaojun (R) of China reacts before the final A of men's 500m at the ISU World Cup Short Track Speed Skating series in Dordrecht, the Netherlands, Feb. 12, 2023. Photo: XinhuaDuring the 2023 ISU Short Track Speed Skating World Cup season, China's short track speed skater Lin Xiaojun became the only member to claim a gold medal in an individual competition. Lin announced a high-profile return to the sport with his outstanding performances at two consecutive championships. After the championship, he set an auto-reply for direct messages on Chinese social media Sina Weibo using a well-known poem from the poet Haizi: "Live your dream, and dream your life." In March, the 2023 World Short Track Speed Skating Championships will kick off in Seoul, South Korea. Lin is expected to come back to the field from which he was once rejected and to win his respect.Chinanews.com

A senior citizen dating show named Serendipity Will Not Come Too Late has gone viral for the direct and straightforward words and deeds of the guests who come to have a blind date in this variety show. Photo: Official account of Serendipity Will Not Come Too LateWith the development of short videos in China, a new mode of blind date livestreaming has appeared, a much different situation from traditional in-person blind dates. According to reports, normally there are about 20 guests participating in each of these livestreams, which can bring in more than 100,000 viewers per stream. The host of the stream can turn a considerable profit if a match is made during a stream.However, marriage is not simply a material exchange, it is more of the happiness of an individual. Participants must be cautious when taking part in such activities.Farmers' Daily 

video game Photo: VCGA report released on Tuesday during the 2022 China Game Industry Annual Conference shows that the Chinese video game industry posted its first drop in five years, a 10.3 percent decline in sales to 265.9 billion yuan ($39 billion) in 2022.As fewer high-quality video game products are being made now, it is important for the industry to build a solid foundation. Though it is a hard job and has a long payback period, it will still help the sutainability of the industry. Chinese video games have a promising future heading overseas.China Youth Daily