Members from the Blue Sky Rescue Team conduct rescue work in the Malatya province, Türkiye, Feb. 10, 2023.(Photo: Xinhua)The China Association for Disaster Prevention has called for Chinese rescue teams that have not yet departed to cancel or suspend their trips to the disaster zones in Turkey and Syria to not increase burden of the disaster-stricken countries and avoid risks and hidden dangers as hopes for more saved lives dwindle due to inclement weather conditions.The death toll in earthquake-ridden Turkey and Syria has surpassed 28,000 as of Saturday local time, CNN reported. According to Turkey's Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency, more than 79,000 people around the world have participated in the rescue, and rescue teams from many countries, including China, have arrived in the disaster-stricken areas in succession. On Saturday, the Chinese earthquake emergency rescue professional committee of the China Association for Disaster Prevention issued a proposal, calling for Chinese rescue teams that have not departed for the quake-stricken areas to cancel or suspend their rescue plans. According to Yang Yanwu, secretary-general of the professional committee, the proposal was issued in consideration of the changed situation on the ground in the disaster zones, the Beijing News reported Saturday. "After being trapped for five days in relatively cold conditions, victims' chances of survival are very slim. If the domestic rescue teams depart now, they will arrive potentially too late," Yang said. In order not to increase the burden of the disaster-stricken countries and avoid risks and hidden dangers, the committee called on domestic rescue teams not to leave for the disaster-hit areas in light of the current overall situation. The committee also called on domestic units and rescue teams in the quake-stricken areas to be subject to the dispatch and arrangement of Chinese diplomatic missions abroad, the national rescue teams, relevant government departments of the affected countries and relevant UN agencies. According to the proposal, the rescue efforts have also been fully transferred into disaster relief and resettlement as the survival chances for those still buried dwindled rapidly due to environmental factors such as low temperatures. According to Yang, if local rescue forces want to offer more support to disaster-stricken areas, they can take actions in terms of materials and resettlement. At present, many victims affected by the disaster need temporary accommodation and post-disaster reconstruction work needs to be carried out in an orderly manner. "The resources available locally may not be able to cope with the serious disaster at present. Since China has accumulated a lot of experiences in coping with natural disasters over recent years, local rescue forces can assist in materials and resettlement," Yang said. The Chinese government announced last Tuesday and Wednesday an intention to provide Turkey with 40 million yuan in emergency assistance and 30 million yuan in emergency humanitarian aid to Syria, with all sectors of Chinese society also extending a helping hand to Turkey and Syria. According to the China International Development Cooperation Agency, the first shipment of 40,000 blankets sent by the Chinese government to Turkey for earthquake relief were delivered from Shanghai Pudong International Airport on Saturday morning, in addition to 1,000 cotton tents. They will arrive in Istanbul on Saturday and Sunday local time according to the Chinese Embassy in Turkey. Electrocardiograph machines and other supplies provided by China will also be shipped in batches. Global Time