Fireworks dragon show is held on the 10th day of the first lunar month in Qiaonan village of Jieyang, Guangdong Province. Photos: Li Hao/GTTradition has never lost its luster. While China has achieved the largest-scale urbanization in history with urbanities embracing a modern life, Chinese people's physical and emotional connections to traditions are strong and omnipresent. These traditions have also become a precious and unique part of Chinese culture.Over the past Spring Festival holidays, Chinese people have felt a festive vibe both in big cities and in rural areas. The Ming Tombs in Beijing staged a live show inspired by the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) silk painting Ming Emperor Xianzong Enjoying the Lantern Festival, which attracted hundreds of visitors.Dozens of performers wearing Ming Dynasty clothing staged a "sitcom" style play, performing scenes including the emperor lighting lanterns and attending court banquets among other ancient activities usually held during the Lantern Festival. One performer told the Global Times that it aimed to help people experience how the Lantern Festival was celebrated and further understand Ming culture.

Dancers perform yingge dance on a street in Jieyang, Guangdong Province.In addition to turning the ancient painting into a sitcom, many other folk arts also became a major draw, even for young people. One young woman surnamed Hou traveled all the way from Beijing to Jiexi county, South China's Guangdong Province, during the holiday to watch a performance of the yingge dance, or "hero's song."One of the most representative folk arts in Chaozhou and Shantou, Guangdong Province, yingge combines dancing, nanquan (southern Chinese-style boxing) and opera, with the aim to drive away evil spirits and bring luck and peace."I could feel the strong enthusiasm of the performers who were all from the same village. They worked so hard to make sure they stayed in step with each other. I was also deeply moved as this type of traditional culture could be preserved until now," Hou said. 

Hanfu lovers celebrate the Lantern Festival at the Ming Tombs in Beijing. 

Performers fight over the chocolate ingots, hoping for good fortune after performance. 

Dancers perform yingge dance on a street in Jieyang, Guangdong Province.

Performers recreate the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) silk painting Ming Emperor Xianzong Enjoying the Lantern Festival.