Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao NingAs the US continues hyping the Taiwan question as a potential "flashpoint" in the Indo-Pacific region, China's Foreign Ministry firmly refuted the erroneous remarks made by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken over the Taiwan question, calling them extremely irresponsible and ridiculous and urging Blinken to seriously heed the lesson of history on the issue."If there were a crisis in Taiwan as a result of the Chinese mainland's aggression in some fashion, that would have disastrous consequences," Blinken said in a February interview with The Atlantic. The remarks come as the US continues along a dangerous path with regard to the Taiwan question as it bolsters military activities and frequently sends vessels and occasionally aircraft through the Taiwan Straits under the excuse of "navigational freedoms."On the Taiwan question, Blinken must take a history lesson, Mao Ning, spokesperson of the ministry, said at a regular press conference on Tuesday, calling his remarks extremely irresponsible and ridiculous. Taiwan has been an integral part of China's territory since ancient times. The one-China principle is the accepted basic norm of international relations and an important political prerequisite and foundation for China to establish diplomatic relations with other countries, she said. In 1972, the US stated in the Shanghai Communiqué that "The United States acknowledges that all Chinese on either side of the Taiwan Straits maintain there is but one China and that Taiwan is a part of China. The United States Government does not challenge that position."In 1978, the US stated in the Joint Communiqué on the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China that "The United States of America recognizes the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal Government of China. The Government of the United States of America acknowledges the Chinese position that there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China."On the Taiwan question, the political commitment made by the US to China was clear and in writing, Mao said. For some time, the US has deliberately ignored and distorted historical facts, sent false signals on the Taiwan question, greatly relaxed restrictions on official exchanges between the US and Taiwan, strengthened military ties with the island, and defended the position of "Ukraine today, Taiwan tomorrow," Mao noted.The US was also reported to have been considering plans to destroy the island in the event of a military conflict between the island and the mainland. "People can't help asking what the US intends to do," Mao asked.Some Chinese experts consider that the US hype and provocation on the Taiwan question exposes the Biden administration's ulterior motives of containing China and its paradoxical mindset as its words contradict its deeds. Especially after the Ukraine crisis, Washington has been trying to make the question as a regional or even international matter, hyping it as a potential security threat. "By connecting it with the Ukraine crisis, the US government is trying to create a certain insecure atmosphere in Asia-Pacific, which would help legitimize the return of its pivot to the Asia-Pacific," Sun Chenghao, a research fellow from the Center for International Security and Strategy at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times on Tuesday. The US has been acting in an opposite way to its commitment, Sun said, noting that Washington may create more troubles on the Taiwan question in the future considering its paradoxical China policy.Mao emphasized that China will never allow external forces to interfere in China's internal affairs. We urge the US to stop going so far in the wrong direction on the Taiwan question and stop using salami slicing tactics to confuse the public and make nonsense, Mao said. "If the US insists on going its own way, it will lead to serious consequences, and the US will pay a heavy price for it," she warned.