Illustration: Hang Dachuan/Global TimesSince March 1, Taiwan high-school students will be able to apply for mainland universities and colleges based on the results of their Taiwan regional university entrance examination test, according to a press release from the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council on Wednesday. This will make the application process much easier for these students.This will be a good opportunity for Taiwan high-school students to fulfill their dream of studying in the mainland and broaden their horizons by traveling the vast land and communicating with their peers in the mainland.In recent years, more and more students from Taiwan have been coming to study in mainland universities, where they are provided with the same medical insurance as mainland students, and favorable conditions such as special scholarships and career services. Mainland universities have been accepting Taiwan students since 1985. According to taihainet.com, by September 2022, about 12,000 students from Taiwan were studying in the Chinese mainland, enjoying the more international study environment and facilities and broader world views. Taiwan students studying in mainland universities not only learn knowledge, but also experience diverse customs. Some students have been amazed by the vast space and long history of Beijing as well as its customs in hutong (small alleys), while others have been enchanted by the dazzling technological advancement in southern metropolis Shenzhen. There are so many delicious dishes and folk customs in the mainland that are worth exploring.It is fair to say that, for Taiwan youths, their lives and views will be incomplete and partial if they have never been to the mainland."I was born in Taiwan, and I am also a descendent of the Yan Emperor and Yellow Emperor because my blood is no different from that of the people in the mainland. China is a vast country with rich resources. As a Chinese, I cannot just stick to a small place. I want to travel all over the country, appreciating the famous rivers and mountains of my motherland," one Taiwan student said."Although my degree may not be recognized in Taiwan, I don't care. My learning in the mainland has been the most valuable experience of my lifetime." These heartfelt remarks show the strong sentiments of Taiwan students toward the mainland, and are a heavy blow to Taiwan authorities' separatist voices. Taiwan's Democratic Progressive Party's refusal to recognize degrees from most mainland universities and purposeful obstruction of cultural exchanges between youth across the Straits goes against the times and the trend of history, and should be condemned.Despite the attempt of Taiwan authorities to separate Taiwan island from China, the mainland's policy toward Taiwan has been consistent and clear and will not change, the Taiwan Affairs Office stated on Tuesday. With the development of the mainland, it always tries its best to have Taiwan people share the benefits of its development. In the new year, the mainland will unswervingly abide by the principle of "people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits are one family," and show great care toward the Taiwan compatriots. In fact, the new university admission policy is a demonstration of the mainland's utmost sincerity toward the Taiwan people.Youth is the hope of a country. The mainland is welcoming more young people from Taiwan to study in its universities. It will help enhance their face-to-face communication with young people in the mainland, broaden their horizons and increase their understanding of the mainland, as well as their own identity as Chinese.