Deputy Mayor of Yangzhou Liu Liu's application form for visit to the island of Taiwan clearly shows its job title.

Deputy Mayor of Yangzhou Liu Liu's application form for visit to the island of Taiwan clearly shows its job title. Disregarding basic humanitarian principles, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) has rudely refused a Chinese delegation's entry into the island of Taiwan to pay tribute to the late Master Hsing Yun, founder of the Fo Guang Shan Buddhist order in Taiwan island, who passed away on February 5. As the DPP authorities are busy using all kinds of unfounded excuses to throw mud at the Chinese mainland, local media outlet Liberty Times Net (LTN) claimed that one of the mainland delegation members used a "fabricated identity" and was thus denied entry. However, in a file a source close to the matter sent to the Global Times on Thursday, it showed the LTN's claim was purely false, a complete slander trying to round up the lies the DPP was telling by making up another lie.At the invitation of Fo Guang Shan, a 38-member delegation composed of personnel from the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council, the National Religious Affairs Administration, the Buddhist Association of China and relevant departments of East China's Jiangsu Province had planned to travel to Taiwan island to mourn Master Hsing Yun from Saturday to Tuesday.However, the delegation was unable to make the trip due to obstruction from the DPP authorities, according to Zhu Fenglian, spokesperson for the Taiwan Affairs Office.On Monday, the LTN reported that among the 38-member delegation, Liu Liu, the Deputy Mayor of Yangzhou, Jiangsu, had "used a fake identity" and applied as "a member of the Taiwan Affairs Office of Jiangsu Province." The "fake identity" was then found during inspection and Liu was therefore denied entry, according to the LTN report. However, the file clearly showed that Liu gave her title as "the Deputy Mayor of Yangzhou," which she is, and provided supporting documents. In the file, she did not mention a word about the Taiwan Affairs Office of Jiangsu Province. It showed the clear fact that the LTN reported misinformation and it was a pure slander of Liu and the mainland delegation to Taiwan, the source said. For a long time, the LTN has been openly advocating "Taiwan independence" and has not shown any media principles when it comes to smearing the mainland. It has fabricated a series of sensational false reports. Not only does it produce fake news, but the LTN, which only cares for stances but not the truth, often plays up fake news released by Western media and anti-China think tanks to smear the mainland, becoming an "amplifier" of false information regarding issues concerning China's Xinjiang region and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Experts believed that the disinformation this time was another act of collusion with the DPP and a political manipulation to sabotage cross-Straits exchanges to seek its own political interests. The brutal rejection of the mainland delegation's trip to Taiwan has been met with fierce dissatisfaction among Taiwan residents. Lee De-wei, an official with the local legislative authority, said that the case has broken all the illusions of the DPP. "As long as the DPP is on stage, cross-Straits relations will only deteriorate."Eric Chu, chairman of the Chinese Kuomintang party, also noted that if the DPP continues to take every chance to create confrontation across the Straits, it will surely be spurned by the people of Taiwan.