Photo: Screenshot from website Tu Zhi Tu Zhi, a rabbit-themed digital art show, is currently on display at Beijing's trendy cultural spot, the 798 Art Zone. The exhibition at the 798 Art Zone's Creative Plaza displays a variety of new media works created by Chinese artist Zhi Zhi. Digital paintings, images, sculptures as well as interactive devices all number among the artist's offerings at the exhibition. The year 2023 dovetails with the rabbit sign in the Chinese zodiac. Zhi Zhi was inspired by this traditional symbol, but also wanted to break from tradition and explore how contemporary digital art can give new character to the ancient rabbit theme. His rabbit art works are divided into five series: "invention," "adventure," "the walker,"  "classic" and the metaverse related "cyber" series.   The Star Trip Rabbit is a Tiffany blue sculpture that shows a rabbit wearing a space suit but also reflects the artist's imagination about the universe. Van Gogh Starry Sky Museum depicts a painter rabbit holding a color palette. It can be seen as Zhi Zhi paying homage to art's ability to symbolize humanity. "Such works show how young artists like Zhi Zhi respond to contemporary issues. Many modern artists looked to history to find subjects for their art, while today's artists are looking to AI and digital art," Zhang Xu, a curator in Shanghai, told the Global Times.  "The vision and inspiration of artistic creators have been constantly expanded by scientific and technological elements. Zhi Zhi shows his humanistic reflection on subjects such as ethics and AI development in his works," said Wang Zhigang, the curator of the exhibition.  Graduated from the Central Academy of Fine Arts, Zhi Zhi is an emerging Chinese digital artist who has brought his digital artworks to notable events such as The Miniature Art Exhibition and the Venice Meta Art annual exhibition in Italy and also the Beijing International Design Week in China. The current 798 Art Zone exhibition was organized by the Cheng Center for Contemporary Art. It is scheduled to end on February 26.