Trainees for the talent show Produce 101 take a rest on August 13, 2018 in Hangzhou, East China's Zhejiang Province. Photo: ICSouth Korean talent show Boys Planet has made Chinese viewers questioning whether the talent competition genre should continue after the first episode of the show saw weak and amateur performances by young singers and dancers from China, South Korea and Japan. The episode sparked huge discussion on Sina Weibo, but unlike the fervent support these shows usually receive, lots of netizens started asking if shows like these even needed to exist. "I thought I was watching a comedy show since I didn't see even a drop of charm on stage," one Sina Weibo user commented.In fact, South Korean audiences have also started growing tired of these shows. The first episode of the program had a low rating of 0.379 percent, ranking at No.31 among all variety shows.Yuli via Sina WeiboA 42-year-old woman living in East China's Zhejiang Province who gave birth to a child out of wedlock because her boyfriend refused to get married has won the support and understanding of Chinese netizens who advocate that having children without being married is a choice that should be respected.At the end of January, the news that Southwest China's Sichuan Province was removing marriage as a requirement to register a birth became a widely discussed topic on Sina Weibo. Many unmarried mothers expressed their desire to be understood and said they are eager to see births out of wedlock be given the same rights as births to married couples. Removing the relationship between fertility and marriage is a sign of progress. Other places in China such as the provinces of Guangdong, Shaanxi and Anhui also relaxed taking marriage as a requirement for birth registrations in 2022.Qianjiang Evening DailyLong commutes are silently sapping the energy of young people living in urban areas. A woman in Shanghai who needs to take 10 subway trains on her 4-hour commute to work has sparked heated debate on social media. A commute that takes more than 60 minutes was described as an "extreme commute" according to one survey. In 2021, the number of people who suffer from taking an extreme commute in China exceeded 14 million. Extreme commutes can reduce happiness and time for sleep, and can lead to lower job satisfaction. This problem has been heavily impacting young people's lives.Shanhai Video via Sina Weibo