Giant panda Ya Ya is at the the Memphis Zoo in the US on February 14. Photo: IC The silence of the Memphis Zoo in the US has triggered another wave of anger after online videos show that the health of giant panda Ya Ya has worsened.Some Chinese panda enthusiasts have stormed the social media accounts of the zoo, questioning why it has not posted any updates concerning Ya Ya. Earlier in February, giant panda Le Le, Ya Ya's male partner, died at the zoo at the age of 25, triggering global outcry over the suspected lack of proper care for the giant pandas in the zoo.Videos circulating on social media show Ya Ya is visibly suffering from distress and a skin disease, and exhibiting repetitive behavior. Animal rights groups say Ya Ya is experiencing excessive cage times and dental problems among other issues.In April 2003, Ya Ya from the Beijing Zoo and Le Le from the Shanghai Zoo arrived at the Memphis Zoo in Tennessee as a part of a joint conservation and research project between the Chinese Association of Zoological Gardens (CAZG) and the US zoo. The loan of the pandas is set to end in April this year after an extension.Pandas are seen as a symbol of peace and friendship, so the sudden death of Le Le and the continued lack of care for Ya Ya have shocked many animal lovers. The CAZG is reportedly working to facilitate an early return of Ya Ya to China after seeing the online outcry concerning the panda's situation in the US zoo.US animal protection organization In Defense of Animals accused the zoo of demonstrating "its utter inability to properly care for giant pandas" after Le Le passed away on February 1. A petition was started by pandavoices.org on change.org for Memphis Zoo CEO Matt Thompson to end Ya Ya's stay in the US. It has received 95,808 signatures as of Thursday. Many fans are questioning why the US zoo did not seem to improve the care for the pandas, while other zoos around the world seem to handle their care just fine.A zoo in Finland is also preparing to return the panda as it faces a shortage of funds and resources at the facility, Finland's national broadcasting company YLE reported on January 27. But the pandas, named Lumi and Pyry, have not shown a lack of care like Ya Ya has suffered. This week also witnessed several pandas at Japanese zoos return to China after the end of the contract. The pandas in Japan, as described by fans, are active and agile.Heeding the calls from animal lovers, the Beijing Zoo has started processing return procedures, but has not yet given a specific date for when Ya Ya will return, eastday.com reported on Thursday.