People look at the female giant panda cub Xiang Xiang at Ueno Zoo in Tokyo, Japan on Tuesday, the first day of its re-opening after nearly a four-month closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Photo: AFPThe female giant panda Xiang Xiang, currently at the Ueno Zoo in Japan, will return to China on February 21, according to Japan's Kyodo News Agency. The media outlet previously reported that Xiang Xiang was often called "a cute and charming star that fascinates tourists" in Japan. Many Chinese internet users welcomed Xiang Xiang to come back to her homeland. "Although there have been many problems between China and Japan, the public's love for giant pandas is something we have in common. I thank Xiang Xiang for her contributions to connecting the people of China and Japan," posted one netizen.Chinanews.comRecently, the leading actor of a popular movie was unable to answer when asked about his feelings about the movie and the characters in it during an interview. Many netizens poked fun at his situation, calling him "desperately illiterate." Actually, "illiterate" in this context is not an example of education discrimination. The term "illiterate actors" is often used to refer to actors who are unable to fully comprehend scripts and have bad acting skills.Not being able to talk about their feelings about a movie they are performing in reflects not only the cultural background of the actor, but also their intentions.Beijing Youth DailyArgentine soccer superstar Lionel Messi may come to China in June to attend two matches, media reporter Qin Yun has revealed. Because of the friendly relationship between China and Argentina, Argentina has promised that all the main players who attended the World Cup Qatar 2022 will come to China for two warm-up matches: One is versus Paraguay, the other opponent is still unknown. Although the Argentine side has not officially announced the decision yet, many Chinese netizens were still thrilled by the news. "It would be fantastic if Messi can come. I hope that the Chinese men's soccer team can really make good use of this opportunity and learn from Team Argentina's experience. Don't let the fans down again!" said one netizen.Sina Weibo