Members of the China Search and Rescue Team transfer an earthquake survivor in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. Photo: XinhuaRescuers from China have pulled out more than 20 survivors in the regions in Turkey and Syria hit by the strong earthquake, Wang Wenbin, spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said on Monday, adding that urgently needed relief supplies provided by the Chinese government have arrived or will soon arrive. Chinese official and civilian rescue teams are actively participating in the rescue work in earthquake-stricken areas, and have kept searching for survivors trapped under the rubble. A Chinese team rescued a survivor in the rubble of a collapsed building in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Turkey, on Sunday afternoon, more than 150 hours after the earthquake. Chinese rescue teams' efforts have also been progressing in Syria. The rescue team from Peaceland Foundation, a Chinese civil relief team, arrived in Syria on Saturday, becoming the first Chinese rescue team to start a rescue mission in the country. The first batch of relief supplies from the Chinese government to Turkey arrived in Istanbul during the weekend, including blankets and tents that are urgently needed, Wang said. The supplies provided by China, including electrocardiograph machines, ultrasonic diagnostics, medical transport vehicles and manual hospital beds, will all be delivered this week. The Chinese government's aid supplies to Syria, including 30,000 first aid kits, 20,000 blankets, 10,000 cotton-padded jackets, 300 tents, ventilators, anesthetics and other supplies, will also be shipped as soon as possible, said the spokesperson. Meanwhile, 220 tons of wheat is on its way to Syria, with more than 3,000 tons of rice and wheat to be shipped in batches this month. Wang said China will work with the international community to actively support and help the people of the two countries to overcome the disaster and rebuild their homeland. Global Times