Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin Photo: fmprc.gov.cn What are the intentions behind the US in spreading false information about China "providing weapons" for the Russia-Ukraine conflict? Where is the conscience of the US, the world's largest arms provider, when its military industry is making a fortune from the battlefield in Ukraine? The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said on Tuesday in response to recent remarks of US Secretary of State Antony Blinken about China considering arming Russia with lethal support. In an interview with NBC News, Blinken said the US was "very concerned that China is considering providing lethal support to Russia" and that he has made clear to the Chinese side that "would have serious consequences in our relationship," reported Reuters. Blinken was reportedly to have warned top Chinese diplomat Wang Yi of "consequences" should China provide material support to Russia, the report said. Commenting on Blinken's claims, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said that the US, who is the largest arms provider for Ukraine, has just promised another $500 million worth of military aid a day before. "Now, they are spreading false information about China supplying weapons [for the Russia-Ukraine conflict], what are their intentions? The US claims, as always, that it wants to maintain peace, but in reality it's making big money from the war," Wang noted. "The US had had a policy in Afghanistan to 'fight until the last Afghan.' Are they planning to let Ukraine fight until there is only one last Ukrainian?" the spokesperson asked. "The reality has long torn apart the US' fake mask of a 'peace keeper,' and exposed its real face that it's eager to see the world in chaos," Wang added. Regarding China's ties with Russia, Wang said that as comprehensive strategic partners, the relations between the two sides are based on non-alliance, non-confrontation and non-targeting of any third party. It is a matter within the sovereignty of two independent countries. China will never allow the US to give orders or even exert pressure on handling its ties with Russia.He urged the US to reflect on its own deeds and stop making profit from others' misfortune. Instead, it should contribute more to promoting peace and dialogue just as China does. Global Times