People wearing face masks walk past a fountain at Victoria Park in Hong Kong, south China, March 8, 2022. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) reported 28,475 new COVID-19 cases on March 8. (Xinhua/Lo Ping Fai)Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will scrap mask mandate since Wednesday after three years’ fight against COVID-19, which means local residents no longer need to wear masks indoors, outdoors and in public transportation, HKSAR Chief Executive John Lee announced on Tuesday. John Lee made the announcement on Tuesday morning, meaning the city lifted its 958-day-long mandate that came into effect on July 15, 2020.The end of mask mandate means the city ditched the last remaining social distancing measures, allowing the public to show their smile and say “Hello Hong Kong” to each other, Lo Chung-mau, secretary of health of the HKSAR government, told Tuesday’s press conference.Failure to abide by the rule was risk of facing fines of up to HK$10,000 ($1,275). The mandate has been updated every two weeks. The last mandate duration should be ended by March 8.Lo said the decision to scrap mask mandate has been made due to the overall controllable epidemic situation in Hong Kong, such as no signs of rising confirmed respiratory disease cases and no major outbreaks among schools.The influenza height is also nearing its end. Related positive cases are possible to experience a rising trend when mask mandate is cleared, but the risk is controllable, Lo noted. Though the city is about to scrap the mask mandate, masks are still required when entering medical institutions to protect high-risk populations and recommended wearing in stuffy places, Lo highlighted. Lee also noted that people entering high-risk places such as nursing homes and hospitals will still be required to wear masks in an administrative and non-legal manner.Hong Kong has gradually emerged from COVID-19. The city resumed border exchange with the mainland on January 8 and then fully opened the border on February 6. All international arrivals to Hong Kong will no longer be required to present vaccination records as Hong Kong fully reopens. Hong Kong has launched a campaign themed “Hello Hong Kong” this year to attract tourists from around the globe. “I believe that the city will be more prosperous and energetic in 2023,” said the Chief Executive. Starting from Monday, Macao also dropped its COVID-19 mask requirements for outdoor locations, except for public transportation, hospitals, and in some indoor places.