Rescue scene at a collapsed coal mine in Alxa Left Banner, Alxa league, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Photo: VCGThe rescue team confirmed the discovery of one more buried body, bringing the total deaths to three after a massive open-pit coal mine collapsed in North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region on Wednesday morning. As of 11:18 am on Thursday, nine people have been found, of whom six are still alive. The accident occurred in a coal mine in Alxa Left Banner, Alxa league, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. National broadcaster CCTV reported that the six rescued people were receiving treatment at a hospital in Qingtongxia, Northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.Through overnight investigation and assessment, the expert group on Thursday had developed an optimized rescue plan, and all search and rescue personnel, medical staff and ambulances were in place.As of 9:33 am Thursday, a total of 300 fire and rescue personnel, 60 fire trucks and six rescue dogs had arrived at the scene to carry out rescue work.Experts from the central authorities, the autonomous region and other relevant provinces and regions had arrived at the rescue site.The rescue operation is complex, as the mining area is located within a valley. After the collapse, the bottom of the operation surface is basically covered.The incident occurred in the western section of the coal mine. The mountain slope in the west mining area collapsed. After the collapse, it formed a mound of dirt that ran 500 meters east to west and 200 meters north to south.Video footage from the mine's cameras showed that the collapse occurred at around 1 pm and lasted for about 30 to 40 seconds. At about 6:44 pm, a second major landslide occurred at the site.In order to ensure the safety of the rescue workers, according to the advice of the expert group, all the rescue workers and vehicles were then evacuated to a safe area. The expert group carried out on-site assessment overnight, formulated an optimized rescue plan, and then organized the rescue.At present, all the rescue forces have been placed, medical rescue forces and ambulances have been prepared, and the power supply and communication support for the on-site emergency command have been in place.The mine was originally a closed site, but in 2012 it was transformed into an open-pit mine. Production resumed in April 2021 following a three-year suspension.Global Times