An actress teaches a Russian man gestures of Yuju Opera at China Cultural Center in Moscow, Russia, on March 5, 2018. Artists from China's Henan Yuju Opera Theater presented performances here on Monday. (Xinhua/Wu Zhuang) The combination of Yuju opera (Henan Opera) and electronic music are the "cherry on top" for the Spring Festival box-office champion Full River Red. The soundtrack of Zhang Yimou's hit movie has been trending on Sina Weibo for its fusion style. Some young listeners commented that the combined soundtrack is the finishing touch for the whole movie. Compared with traditional singing styles, the film's Yuju opera singing has a stronger sense of rhythm. Matching the changing mood of the characters, it creates a tense and chilling atmosphere. The combination has made young people look at this traditional art form from a new perspective. Cul.china.com.cn

A man reads ritual oration on the ceremony in memory of Zhang Qian, in Chenggu County, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, April 3, 2018. Zhang Qian, a royal emissary in China's Han Dynasty (202 B.C.-220 A.D.), traveled westward on a mission of peace and opened an overland route linking the East and the West, a daring undertaking which came to be known as Zhang Qian's journey to the Western regions. (Xinhua/Tao Ming)From the ancient Silk Road to today's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), why has Eastern culture become more confident over time? When Chinese diplomat Zhang Qian went on a mission to the Western Regions over 2,000 years ago, he almost connected all the routes from Europe to Asia. Now China has proposed the BRI to call for all human beings' interconnectivity across continents. The ancient Silk Road witnessed the exchanges of civilizations at different stages of human development. It also enlightens the world today: Civilizations needs to be open and to learn from each other, not closed and decoupled. They need equality and respect.  Xing Guangcheng, CASS scholar

Chinese e-commerce livestreamer Huang Wei, or Viya, recommends products during a livestream show in April, 2021. Photo: VCGStrengthening supervision of celebrity livestream promotions is urgently needed. Recently, the Beijing Advertising Association once again emphasized the importance of an effective supervising system aimed at celebrities and their livestream promotions, a phenomenon in which brands sell their products to online audiences in real time with celebrities as an anchor. With the development of the prosperous livestreaming market, this new sales trend has become a lively industry. Yet incidents such as selling fake products have occurred from time to time. This chaotic situation violates the public order as well as the legitimate rights of consumers. Relevant online platforms must play the role of "gatekeeper" and act responsibility for the sake of consumers.China Quality News