Medical staff from a hospital of traditional Chinese medicine in South China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region display their sachet bags. Photo: VCG After seeing the presale webpage for a set of face masks jointly designed by the Shanghai Mental Health Center and the Shanghai Museum, 36-year-old Shanghai resident Alan ­ordered one without hesitation. "I never thought these two organizations would release a produce together. That's interesting," he said.The hospital, a place people subconsciously relate to ideas such as professionalism, coldness and illness, are brightening up their image through a variety of dazzling creative products.Hot itemsThe very first batch of creative products include ­hoodies and toy bears from Ruijin Hospital, School of Medicine at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, ­memorializing the hardships medical workers experienced during the fight against ­COVID-19.In 2022, a set of photos showing Ruijin Hospital staff wearing red hoodies featuring the name of the hospital on them went viral on Chinese social media. The photos proved so popular that people called the hospital trying to find where they could buy some of their own."We saw people hailing the creative products our hospital was selling," recalled Ding Yun, deputy director of the Party Committee Office of the Ruijin Hospital, noting that they never expected their "hospital-oriented creative products" to go viral.However, the fact is that, in addition to Ruijin, similar products from other hospitals across the country have won the hearts of patients as they bring a ray of light when they step in and out of the office after seeing a doctor.From hairpins, T-shirts and potted plants with ­hospitals' logo on them to sachets, emergency kits and foot bath kits designed by traditional Chinese medicine doctors, numerous products have proved to be very popular and tend to sell out quickly.The product Alan bought contained a set of five face masks, each a different color and decorated with slogans such as "Shanghai power," "fight against monsters" and "nourishment for the mind." A single set sells for 15 yuan ($2).Alan ordered two sets. He said he would have bought more, but the presale period quickly ended due to a surge in order.The face mask's popularity didn't surprise Alan, who praised them as well-designed and cheap. "Moreover, for those who feel stressed and sometimes depressed because of pressures in work and life like myself, wearing beautiful masks released by a mental health center can feel a little like a cure," he joked.

The panda mascot of the West China Hospital Photo: Courtesy of West China HospitalWest China Hospital, ­Sichuan University in Chengdu has been named one of the Top 10 Chinese Medical Institutions for Creative Products since 2018.Six years ago, the hospital's first batch of creative products included rather "standard" designs such as paper-cutting artworks and red envelopes printed with the hospital's logo or its iconic building. These products launched during that year's Spring Festival were not ambitious as they were meant to merely be warm gifts for hospital staff. Yet, when they were put on display in the hospital's gift shop and its WeChat online store, patients and consumers expressed great demand for these hospital-themed products.  This reaction paved the way for the hospital to build its creative brand. Zhang Xuan, a consumer, told the Global Times that she bought a key ring at the hospital's store to "commemorate the day she left the hospital."In addition to targeting consumers like Zhang, West China Hospital has tried to broaden its consumer base by adding more "Sichuan culture" to their creative products, said Zheng Yuanyi, the head of the Publicity Department at the hospital. Marketing tool Pandas are a cultural icon of Chengdu. This has inspired the hospital team to come up with Pi Xixi, a panda mascot that they have put on multiple products. Local Sichuan idioms have also been used in their creative designs as well as on promotional platforms. Zheng said that this allows the hospital to stand out among the hundreds across the country. "Medical behavior is extremely rich in regional characteristics. Our confidence to the local culture is the most important part to our creative designs," Zheng said. Chu Xin, a cultural sociologist, told the Global Times that as marketing tools, hospitals' creative designs show how creativity has expanded to a wide-range of social sectors, especially among organizations that offer experiential services. 

Canvas bags designed by the Shanghai East Hospital Photo: Courtesy of Shanghai East Hospital "Good hospitals not only offer medical treatments but also provide sentimental value to people. Creative products are the best way to do this," Chu said."We want to make interesting items with practical uses that can reflect the culture and characteristics of our hospital," said a representative of the Shanghai East Hospital affiliated with Tongji University. The hospital has designed products like canvas bags and cups."We welcome patients with talent and passion to participate in the design process as well," the representative said.