Long lines are seen back at a train station in Jinan, East China's Shandong Province, on December 7, 2022, as China further optimized COVID response and relaxed controls. Photo: ICRecently, a Chinese blogger called "Da Gong Zai Xiao Zhang Ye" became famous - gaining about 1 million fans - on the Chinese internet after she published a series of videos telling people how to take high-speed trains, buses and metros. She used to be a comedian blogger and most of her fans were girls under 20. She said not everyone has lived in a city and some are too young, so she wanted to share her life experience and knowledge with her fans in the hopes her life experience could help them.Jiu Pai NewsA staff member working in a cafeteria at an art school in Dalian, Northeast China's Liaoning Province, sent a bouquet of "steel scrubber roses" as a Valentine's Day's gift to a woman who is also working there. According to a video shared on Sina Weibo, steel scrubbers were put in a bouquet so they looked like a bunch of roses. The video says he sent this as a present because he wants their love to be stronger than steel and never rust. Many netizens thought he was very romantic and said that he was able to be so creative because he works at an art school.Henan News RadioA video of a 21-year-old girl with a hand disability from Lianyungang, East China's Jiangsu Province, writing beautiful Chinese characters amazed many Chinese internet users recently. In a video clip posted by CCTV.com on Sina Weibo, the girl can be seen writing ancient Chinese poems and English sentences on paper in beautiful neat script. Although she has a congenital hand disorder, she can write calligraphy with a pen as neat as a "printer." The girl said that she has practiced calligraphy since childhood. As long as she has free time between classes, she takes out time to practice."She is such a talent that she writes characters better than most people,"one netizen commented."Life didn't treat her well, but she is amazing in how she is giving back."Sina Weibo