People lay flowers on February 14, 2023 local time in memory of the victims of the Michigan State University shooting. Photo: ICThe Chinese Consulate-General in Chicago lodged strong indignation and stern condemnation over the brutal criminal act of killing innocent people during a shooting rampage at Michigan State University on Monday local time that has resulted in three deaths and five others, including two Chinese overseas students, injured. The gunman was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound off campus, according to local media reports.The two Chinese overseas students shot and wounded in the incident are now safe after receiving treatment at a local hospital, according to a spokesperson from the Chinese Consulate-General in Chicago. The spokesperson declared the deadly shooting at Michigan State as deplorable and the Chinese Consulate-General in Chicago lodged strong indignation and stern condemnation over the brutal criminal act of killing innocent people. After the shooting incident occurred, the Chinese Consulate General immediately launched an emergency response mechanism, contacting local police, the university, the student federation and the overseas Chinese service center there to obtain more information about the incident and potential Chinese casualties. The local police confirmed that no Chinese student was killed in the shooting and the two Chinese shot and wounded are now both safe and receiving treatment at a local hospital.  The Chinese Consulate-General in Chicago has contacted and extended condolences to the students' family members, providing assistance for family planning to come to the US. The Chinese Consulate-General in Chicago has also maintained close contact with the university in coordinating assistance with the students' family members' visits to the US. The Consulate-General also is in close communication with the student federation through which reminded Chinese overseas students to strengthen their personal safety precautions. Adding that the Chinese Consulate-General is available at any time if any help and assistance is required. The Consulate-General urged relevant US departments to take concrete and effective measures to safeguard the security and legitimate rights and interests of Chinese nationals living and working in the US, including the Chinese overseas students. The Consulate General reminds Chinese nationals in the region, including Chinese overseas students, to pay close attention to the local security situation, further raise their risk awareness and strengthen safety precautions and self-protection. It promised to follow the case closely and provide consular protection and assistance. A 43-year-old gunman, whose name was not immediately released, opened fire on Monday night at Michigan State University killing three people and wounding five more, before fatally shooting himself several miles away after an extended manhunt. Police announced the man's death early Tuesday, four hours after shootings took place. Global Times