The Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies of Renmin University of China released the report "Aid Mixed with Water: Inside Story and Analysis of Western Military Aid to Ukraine" at an academic forum held in Beijing on Thursday. Photo: Zhang Changyue/GTWestern politicians turn grinding Ukraine War into a political show. Cartoon: Carlos LatuffOne day ahead of the one year
anniversary of the Russia-Ukraine conflict's outbreak, a Chinese think tank
published a report on Thursday, claiming that US aid to Ukraine is seriously "watered-down"
as Kiev and Ukrainian people only received very little from the huge amount of the
US has promised, while the most of the assistance are actually serving the
"money laundering plan" for the US military industrial complex. The Chongyang Institute for
Financial Studies of Renmin University of China released the report "Aid
Mixed with Water: Inside Story and Analysis of Western Military Aid to
Ukraine" at an academic forum held in Beijing on Thursday. The report
showed that, based on the data and documents published by Western governments
and media since the very beginning of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, a large
amount of US aid funds has not flown to Kiev.Over the past year, the US has continued
to provide and push its allies to provide military assistance to Ukraine, shaping
an image of "the champion of justice and a saver of Ukraine," said the report. However,
the fact is that Washington is using "supporting Ukraine" as a pretext to make
huge amount of taxpayers' money to transfer into the pocket of the US military
industrial giants like Lockheed Martin and Raytheon Technologies, while tens of
thousands of Ukrainian people are suffering from deadly military combat.As of January 15, 2023, the total
amount of US pledged aid to Ukraine reached $76.8 billion. Among the pledged
assistance, military aid accounted for the largest proportion, at 46.5 billion
US dollars, accounting for 61 percent. Part of the US military aid is financial
loans for the purchase of US military products. This loan will form long-term
liabilities for countries such as Ukraine, said the report. However, humanitarian aid only accounted
for the smallest proportion, at $3.9 billion, accounting for only 5 percent of
the total amount. Financial aid was $26.4 billion, accounting for 34 percent.
The main purpose of US financial assistance is to maintain the continuity of
the Ukrainian government's wartime operations. According to the analysis of the report,
its ultimate purpose is to "prolong the Ukrainian crisis."Although the US has spent huge
amount of money on military aid, Kiev's strength and capability for war have
not been significantly improved. Only about 17 percent of the 2022 Additional
Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act involving $40 billion is directed to
Ukraine, and the rest of the money is suspected of being used for other
purposes, said the report. Among the $40 billion, more than $14.2
billion, accounting for about 36 percent, has been used for the US itself, such
as updating the US arsenals and ammunition, and issuing additional wages and
allowances for US military personnel, said the report. Another $18.9 billion in aid funds
did not specifically target recipient countries, accounting for about 47
percent, so the public is unable to track where the money has gone.The report summarized that: Firstly,
the US aid is extremely inflammatory. Before and during the crisis, the US
continued to fuel the Ukrainian crisis with military aid and maintain its
intensity. Secondly, the US aid is extremely deceptive. The actual US aid to
Ukraine has shrunk layer by layer. The delivery of aid is mainly
"dragging". The delivery of the aid cannot be guaranteed. Thirdly,
the US aid is extremely self-serving. A large proportion of the funds within
the $40 billion aid bill to Ukraine will flow to the US itself, which will
bring at least $17.3 billion in additional revenue to US military contractors.
Fourthly, the US aid is extremely prone to causing further conflict, leading to
more serious internal conflicts in Europe, and European countries will have to
strengthen its dependence on the US in various fields such as energy, military,
and economy.Wang Wen, the executive dean of the
Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, said at the forum that China stands
on the side of peace, and it's totally rightful and absolutely necessary for a
Chinese think tank to point out the fact and the dirty inside story of
so-called US or Western aid to Ukraine, to help more people to understand why
the conflict won't come to an end and who's been benefitting from the deadly
crisis.